Alright. Can you guys hear me in the
back? Thumbs up? Yeah? Okay. All right. So
now we're gonna go into actually implementing our
back end. So our goal for today is
have a working feed and profile. So currently,
if we pull up our book let me
do that right now. You guys don't have
to follow along with this. But currently, if
we post something on our cat book or
we comment something, whenever we refresh, everything just
disappears, and that's not really good if you
want to make a social media app. So
the problem is oh, let's see. By the
end of today, posts will be able to
refresh and our comments will also persist. Currently,
all our stories and comments are stored in
our React state, so like Cordelia said yesterday,
it's kind of bad that we store our
stories and comments in a variable in our
front end. It's just really bad practice since,
as you guys saw, whenever we refresh, we
just get the same stories rendered. So by
the end of today, we want all our
stories and comments to be stored on the
back end. So how does the front end
get the stories and comments? If we have
the back end, we just send requests to
the server asking, please give me the stories,
and then our server just sends them back
to us. So let's see this example in
action. If you guys can open up weblab.
Isexample on your computer. Do inspect, and then
go to network, and then refresh. You, again,
can see all the requests that we send
to our server, so this is our example
server. And you can go to, I don't
know, stories and see the response, the headers,
the request method. We got our status code,
200 okay. And so if you pull up
all of the requests, you see that there
are different types of requests, and one of
them is fetch. And fetch basically says that
we're sending HTTP request through JavaScript. And so
you guys remember how I mentioned yesterday how
you can send there are multiple ways to
send HTTP requests, one of them being the
browser, another being JavaScript, and another being from
your terminal using cURL. This is using the
JavaScript method, and we'll be using it a
lot whenever we're developing get and post requests
from our front end. Yeah, we need a
way to send our request to our server,
and so we're going be sending HTTP requests
using JavaScript. And so in utilities. Js, you
can see that we made some helper functions
for you guys, get and post, and essentially
what we're doing here is we're abstracting out
the fetch function that is in JavaScript to
send requests. So for get, you can see
that we have our endpoint and then our
parameters for get request, and then for fetch
request using post, we specify the method, the
headers and body. So this resembles the HTTP
request structure yesterday, and it will be important
to remember this, the structure of HTTP request,
whenever we are sending and receiving information through
our server. And we'll talk about that later
whenever we implement our endpoints. So let's get
started, guys. Go to your terminal in Versus
Code and run these commands. I'll give you
guys a couple of seconds. Okay. It's like
code's going be on the okay. I'll just
share this then. Oh, yeah, you're right. Okay.
Git reset hard, git fetch, git checkout, three
step one. Alright. So in this workshop, we're
going to be using npm start and npm
run dev, and as I mentioned in the
previous lecture, we run servers on ports on
our computers. So whenever we run npm start,
we're going to be running the server folder
in our project on port 3,000, and those
will be handling requests that we send from
our front end. And then our npm run
dev server, which will be accessible at 500173,
will essentially just be sending us the React
files that we can render on our browser,
which we'll use to actually send requests to
our back end. Currently, we have one test
end endpoint that we implemented right now, it
was like the example API endpoint. So here's
the agenda for today. We're going to be
sending a get request to our server, and
our server is going to have an endpoint
for that get request, and we're going to
be requesting stories. Then we're going to be
sending a post request to our server, and
we'll handle that logic on the server side
with a post API endpoint. And then we
do the same thing for comments, and then
towards the end, we'll be implementing root middleware
so that we can have very neat code
and we can organize our API endpoints. All
right. So step one will be moving stories
data to the back end, and then requesting
them, and then creating an endpoint. So currently,
we have our stories hard coded in feed
dot jsx, so if you guys can pull
up feed dot jsx and find the stories,
and then we'll move on. But we don't
want this data to be the end. We
don't want this data to be in the
front end, we want it to be in
the back end. And so currently, any modifications
to stories on the front end will just
be local, so whenever we refresh, we'll just
end up with the same three stories. So
we're going to move all this data to
the back end, and this will be your
turn to get familiar with where everything is,
and just to move the data from feed
to server. So I'll give you guys a
couple of minutes to do that, and if
you guys have any questions, please feel free
to ask. Alright guys, can I get a
thumbs up if you guys are able to
move move all that data to a server,
server dot js? It's up. How many of
you guys need any more time, so hold
up. Hold up how many fingers you guys
need how many minutes you guys need of
time to finish this? Two. All right. I'll
do it with you guys, and then you
guys can, just do the same. So we
go to components, then we go to modules,
and, oh, actually pages, and then we go
to feed dot JSX. We simply copy and
paste the stories, copy them. Oh shoot. My
Versus code is bugging. So we copy that,
and then we go to server dot js,
so this is where our server code's gonna
be, and we just copy and paste it
right above step one. I like changing names
to stories. Are we good with that? Alright,
cool. Now that the stories are in the
back end, we need the front end to
actually request them. We'll be sending you a
request for stories, and then server will send
back stories. So just so you guys are
able to get familiar with HTTP requests and
the structure and what information we're sending to
the server, imagine that or actually, go on
weblab. Isexample again, and then go to inspect,
and then network, and look at the structure
of our stories request, and try to fill
out all the missing information, sorry, All the
missing information, all the missing information here. And
if you guys need any help, please get
on the queue. But yeah, let's go on
the network tab, and then go to the
stories request, and see what kind of information
we're sending. So I forgot to mention that
you might want to refresh the page whenever
you're on the network tab, just so that
all the HTTP requests can be shown. Alright,
how much time do you guys think you
guys need? You guys pull up your finger,
put up your fingers. Any minutes? Alright. I'll
give you guys one more minute for this.
All right, so, I'll do it with you
guys. So if we go to weblab.is/example, we
can go to inspect, and go to network,
and then we can refresh. And we see
all these HTTP requests that this website sends,
and then we go to stories, we look
at all the information, we see that's a
get request and the server for the example
server is catbook on render.com, and the endpoint
that it's using is apistories. So for our
own catbook, we'd want to use the endpoint
API slash stories, or create an endpoint API
slash stories, and the base URL would just
be localhost 3,000. Then if we go to
response, you can see all the stories that
people posted. Daniel, hi. Namastezer, hello. And then,
is that all? And here it says three
zero four, like on the first render of
these stories, it actually be a 200, but
since our computer just like stores it on
in the cache, then it's just a three
zero four. So the answer would look something
like this. So Now we're going want to
actually request our stories from the front end.
Should I do a break for lunch? I
don't want do this in four minutes. Alright,
guys. Break time, Zoom people. Alright. So we're
gonna get started now. So just a little
review, to remember what we were doing. We
moved our stories to the back end, and
now we want to send get requests to
the server to actually retrieve that data. And
so we have a little diagram right here
in the corner, just to show whether we're
in the front end or the back end.
Front end, we're going be making get and
post requests, and then the back end is
going be making the endpoints that run the
functionality for those specific requests. Right now, we're
on the front end and we're going be
sending a get request for the stories. We're
going to be using the built in function
in utilities. Js, which is the get function,
and we want to call this function on
the apistories endpoint. And I want you guys
to think for a second, what parameters, if
any, do we want to pass into this
function for the specific endpoint? Is there any
kind of information that will help us refine
what stories we'll be requesting, or will we
just be sending a request to the endpoint
with no parameters? Remember that get returns a
promise, so you want to use dot then
so that we can actually run some logic
on the data that we retrieve from the
server. We also want to organize these stories
from earliest to latest, and you may want
to use the reverse method for arrays. I'll
give you guys a second to think about
how we would probably you guys a second
about we structure this get request in the
front end, so we would probably be in
e dot JSX. This should be gone. I'll
give you guys a minute to think about
how we could probably structure this request, and
then since you guys have never actually sent
a GET request, I'll do it, and you
guys can just follow along. Alright, so I'll
start implementing it. So, in our front end,
we're in the front end, we're in feed
dot jsx, we want to send a request
to the endpoint apistories, so we get our
get function, then we specify our endpoint, we're
going to be using apistories, and this is
going to return we don't know how long
this request is going take, so it returns
a promise, and so we use dot then,
and dot then takes in a callback function,
and our callback function as input will retrieve
the stories, so our story objects we passed
into dot then, the dot then callback function.
And so what kind of logic do we
want to run after we retrieve this data
from our server? Well, we just want to
set these stories as the current stories on
our website, so we use set stories, story
objects. Remember how we mentioned how we want
these stories to be rendered from earliest to
latest? So we'd want to use a dot
reverse method, so we initialize a variable called
reversed stories, and this is going be equal
to story objects dot reverse. And then, we
simply pass those reverse stories into setStories. Is
that all? And we can look at the
solution, so that you guys can parse it
and if you guys have any questions, please
feel free to ask or get on the
queue so that somebody else can help you.
Sorry? Yeah, so the thing about this is
that we can actually name it whatever endpoint
we want, since we're going to implement this
endpoint in our backend next. So right now,
we're just going to call it api. Stories
and pretend we're going to be receiving these
stories from the backend, but after this, we're
actually going to create the endpoint that sends
those stories back. One question, some questions for
you guys is, what HTTP request is being
sent here, and why do we use dot
then? And I'll go over those right now.
So just turn and talk to your neighbor.
Yeah, Give you guys like a minute for
that. Hey guys, take one minute. If you're
not sitting near anyone who you can talk
to, go find someone, at least one person.
You can be in groups of like two,
three, or more if you want, and introduce
yourself and sit next to them. Because I
think with some of this like more tough
conceptual stuff, it's actually really helpful to talk
it out with someone. So one minute to
find someone if you don't have anyone. Go.
So I hear it's starting to get a
little bit quiet. So the HTTP request that
is being sent here is a get request,
you can see, because we have the get
function, and then why do we use dot
then? Well, like any request to a server,
it may take an unspecified amount of time,
and we don't want to wait for that
request to be fulfilled. We want to be
able to render the rest of our website
and not worry about whether that data is
retrieved or not. And so we create a
promise, and dot then handles that promise, or
the contents of that after it's resolved. After
it's resolved, after we retrieve our stories, we
reverse them and then we set them as
the stories on our website. So now, we're
actually going to send back those stories from
the back end. So we're in the back
end. Yeah. So if you guys remember the
request and response objects from the previous lecture,
we're going to be using those objects to
send and receive data from the back end.
And so a little bit about rec and
res. So rec stores the incoming request, and
we use the rec object to access the
information in the HTTP request the server received.
As I showed you guys earlier, inside the
HTTP request there's the target URL parameters, header
of the body and then the type of
request that it is. For the queries, for
all of our query parameters, we're going be
storing them in rec dot query, or we'll
be able to access them in rec dot
query. This is for a get request, this
is where we'll be storing our parameters. Then
for post request, we'll be storing all the
information we want to post to our back
end inside of req. Body. Then for response,
res is your server's response and we use
a res object to send a response from
the server back to the front end. And
so the information that we're sending back is
going to be the status code and then
whatever information our front end requested. And so
we'd have a res dot status function and
then we just put in whatever status code
we want to send back and then res
dot send will send back the data that
our front end requested. Okay. And so now
we want to create the endpoint API slash
stories. What does this route need to do?
We just need to send back all the
stories to the front end. How can we
access all the stories? Well, if you guys
remember, we move back all the stories information
from our front end to our back end
and just stored it in a variable called
stories. And so I'll code that out right
now. So we go to the server folder,
server dot js, and then we want to
implement our get endpoint. So we have our
server abstracted out as the app variable, this
is our express server. We do app dot
get and this sets our endpoint, and the
endpoint that we want to use is apistories.
And this app dot get function also takes
in a callback function, and this callback function
takes in a rec and a response. And
so, we simply want to send back the
stories to our front end. And so what
we do is res dot send all of
our stories. And that's pretty much it. I'll
keep this up here for a minute. If
you guys can turn and talk to your
neighbor and talk about like what this code
is doing, that would be great, and then
if you guys have any questions, I'll be
here. Sorry. Can you say that? You didn't?
Alright, can I get a thumbs up if
we're all good? Good, we're good? Okay, cool.
I saw that most of you guys tried
to test this out already, and you guys
got an internal server error or something like
that, and that's because we're not actually running
our back end yet. I mentioned earlier that
in order to get our front end React
files, we run npm run dev, and we
need to do a similar command in order
to run our back end. Open up two
terminals and run npm start in one, and
then npm run dev in the other. And
then check out localhost five thousand one 70
three. Run NPM install, and I think maybe
that will help. That will fix it. And
if you guys have your website out, like
you can Oh. Oh, we can post stuff
and our comments can be posted as well.
Yeah, whatever. But if we refresh, all these
posts still disappear and that's because whenever we
post information, we're updating it on our local
state, but we actually sending it to our
backend. That's why we need to create a
post request and then a post endpoint for
our backend, so that we can send that
post to our backend and our backend just
appends it to the list that stores our
stories. And so that's what we're gonna do
next. Before that, does anybody have any questions?
Alright. So if you guys can run these
commands, that would be good. Okay, so now
that we're on the same page, we're gonna
implement our post endpoint and our post request
on the front. For post requests, we want
to store whatever content we're sending to our
back end in rec dot body. And we
can actually specify specific attributes for certain information
that we're sending to the back end, similar
to how we send down props and those
props can be used as attributes, whenever we
send information using get and post, we can
specify certain key value pairs so that we
have organized data. We're gonna implement the get
and post, I mean rather, the get request
or the post request and the post endpoint
in the opposite order. Our get request, we
sent a get request and then we implemented
or rather, we implemented the get request and
then we implemented the get endpoint. Now we're
going to do the opposite. We're going to
make the post endpoint and then create the
post request from our front end. And so
you can do whichever order you guys prefer,
whichever is more intuitive to you, but we'll
just show you that the order doesn't matter.
As long as you have both the post
request and the post endpoint, you'll be good.
So an example would be like, hello, here's
a new story, meow, and then our back
end receives that post and adds it to
our stories variable, and then usually, like, we
return the post that we made, just so
that our front end knows that the post
was successfully added. So if you guys can
so this is why we tested out weblab.
Isexample yesterday. Can you guys go to weblab.
Isexample and then open up the network tab,
and then try posting something on that website,
and find, your specific HTTP request in the
networks tab. Oh, yeah. Yeah, turn and talk
to the person next to you so you
guys can reach an agreement on what they
should be building with. Alright. Cool. And so
I'll do it with you guys. So open
inspect, open up network, and, I'll post something.
Hello web lab. And I get my, here's
the HTTP request that I sent to the
example server. So it's a post request, status
200, so successfully handled. And then you can
see that my response, they just send me
back the post that I created. Hello, web
lab. Yeah, and so if you look at
the answer, you see that's post request and
our back end server is going be 3000
and we're going to be using the endpoint
apistory, which is the same endpoint that they
used on the example server. We're gonna be
sending posts through the request body, and then
our back end's gonna send us a status
code and then that same post back to
us. Alright. And so, whenever we are dealing
with requests and responses, the way that we
access information for a post request would be
in rec dot body, and as I mentioned
earlier, we can add our own attributes to
rec dot body, just by passing in a
key value pair as input to our parameters.
So here I define a variable, which is
just a key value pair, which is content
and web development class and competition. And then
we pass this in through post, which takes
in an endpoint and then parameters, and then
we run some callback function. It doesn't really
matter right here. And then, in our backend,
this should be app, don't worry about router.
We have our endpoint slash web lab and
it should be API, and we take in
a rec and a response, and we simply
print web development class in a competition by
accessing the valuerec.body.content. So now, we're gonna be
in the backend, implementing our post endpoint. So
I'll be doing that with you guys right
now. So we are in the back end,
so we're gonna be in server.js. And so
we have our server app, and endpoint that
we want to make is a post endpoint,
and we're going to name this endpoint apistory,
since we're posting a story. And the callback
function will take in a rec and a
res, And so what information do we want
to get from our rec? Let's suppose that
we pass in, really we can do whatever
we want here. So let's say our story
is gonna be equal to request body, since
it's a post request, and let's just say
it's the attribute that we make is the
story. So since we're posting this, we're gonna
want to add this to our data structure,
which is our array of stories. And so
we simply get stories and we push our
story onto our stories array. And at the
end, we want to send back this story
to our friend to tell them, okay, we
successfully added your story to our database of
stories. We do res dot send story, new
story. Okay. So now, I'll let you I'll
put it up on the screen so that
you guys can parse it for a second,
and like the previous slides, please turn around
and talk to a partner, and talk about
what this code is doing. Sorry? Oh, I
see. So it sounds like you guys got
it. Most of you guys' questions, they're really
design questions. It's a little bit weird to
implement the endpoint first and then send the
post request or send the get request first
and then implement the endpoint. So hopefully, after
all of this, you guys will understand, oh,
whether we send information through rec.body.content or rec.
Body, it's really up to you and what
you guys want to send through the parameters
in a get or post request. It's really
all up to you guys. And so now
we're actually going to send a post request
to our back end. And so we want
to send a post request to the endpoint
that we made, and our endpoint is apistory,
and so we're currently in the front end.
What do we send as a parameter? Well,
if we don't send anything else, how is
our back end going to know what post
we want to post? We're going to be
sending a post through our parameters. Let's go
to feed dot JSX, and we're gonna be
posting our new story inside of the callback
function add new story. And so just for
some context, to know what add new story
is doing, let's see where it's being passed
into. Down here in our return statement for
feed, we see that we're returning a div
with a new story object, and then all
of our story objects that we want to
render. So this new story object is just
let's see. It's just like the post, this
post new story object with the submit button.
And so we're passing in our add new
story function into that comment, I mean, sorry,
that component, and so if you want to
see where it's actually being called, we can
open up new story input, new post input
dot JSX, and you can see whenever we
post a new story, or rather, we make
another callback function called add story and inside
of that function we call add new story.
And so we pass this function down as
a function handler for on submit. So it's
a callback function add story. Whenever we click
submit, we call that function, with our input
being whatever text we have in our text
box. And so we make our story, got
a story right here, and then we pass
it into add new story. So as you
do some context, we're passing in a story
object into add new story, and so let's
implement our post request to the back end.
So we know that we're going be posting,
sending a post request to the endpoint apistory.
And the callback function that sorry, this is
the friend, so we're going to be the
post function is going be returning a promise,
and so we're going to want to actually
handle the promise using dot then, and remember
how we send back the post back to
our front end, so just to confirm that
it was actually added, and so we can
have our new story object. And we're going
to just add this to our state, and
so instead of value, we're doing new story
object. And so that's pretty much it, and
I'll leave the solution up here, just so
you guys can turn to a neighbor and
talk about what it's actually doing. Oh, wait,
oh yeah. No, no, no, no. I think,
Oh yeah. And so our story is just
going be value, and so we pass in
value as our parameter. Thank you. It seems
like you guys are pretty much done with
this. Just like one thing I wanted to
quickly mention is that if we do NPM
run start, or rather, we're gonna test it
now, and so, if you guys weren't able
to finish it, go to go run these
commands, and then we'll be able to, run
our back end and our front end. And
we can see that once we post something,
post a story, if we refresh, that story
persists, and that's really good. And, one thing
I wanted to quickly mention is that, like,
this is rendering our stories, and whenever we
request this website, we're just requesting the stories,
and then we put them into components and
then render them. But if we just put
in the URL, or rather the endpoint that
we created, like, for getting stories, like apistories,
3,000 because it's the back end, we'll just
get all of our story objects that we
created. And so that's pretty neat, except they
won't be, like, rendered correctly. Okay. And I'll
hand it off to, Hong to finish the
rest of the workshop. Thank you, guys. Alright.
Real quick, I'm just going to review everything
that we just did in steps one and
two, because it was kind of a lot,
and just show you how the flow goes
from beginning to end in the code and
in our HTTP requests. So if we pull
up our code, first we're gonna talk about
get stories, which we implemented in step one.
And we make the get request inside the
use effect of our feed. That's inside the
use effect because we want to know, we
wanna do this as soon as our website
loads. And then in server.js oh gosh. Lucas,
why does your computer not drag? Can I
can I That's kind of a problem? Yeah.
Okay. Can we split oh my god. Okay.
Fine. I'll just I'll just change tabs. That's
awkward, but it's fine. Oh, this one? Oh,
thank goodness. Okay. Sorry. We're moving along. So
here, you notice that we have okay. Here
in the front end is when we make
the get request, and then here in the
back end is where we define what the
get request does. And so here, what we're
doing is we start off by making a
get request to slash api slash stories. No
parameters. And if you look at the slide
here, the content of the http request is
right there. And then you can see that
if you open up, if you run npm
start, npm run dev, you open up Catbook,
and then you inspect element and go to
the network tab. As we saw earlier, you
can see what the requests actually are. You'll
be able to see the request being sent,
like, the top of the slide. And then
in our server file, we decide how we're
going to handle that request. So in the
server, we say, okay, anytime the app gets
a request to api slash stories, we're going
to send back the stories. And then the
response gets sent that looks like the response
on the bottom of this slide. And then,
once we receive that on the front end,
we're gonna take what we received from the
back end, the story objects, which you can
see there, and then we take it and
set the React state equal to it, And
that renders the front end based on oh
my goodness, I hate Macs. Based on what
we received from the back end. So that
was get stories. That was step one. Step
two, we implemented the functionality to post a
new story. And so this was also in
feed. And then this is the corresponding back
end code. So here in feed, send a
story using value. Now what is value? Well,
this add new story function gets called every
single time that we, hit the submit button,
like we type something in and hit the
submit button to post a new story. You'll
see that value, this function gets called using
inside the new post input component. And so
we create a new JavaScript object with the
content, which is what we typed in. Now,
the creator name is just anonymous user, and
then some ID. And so this is going
to be what value the parameter here is
equal to. It's just a JavaScript object that
represents our new story, and we send that
off in the to the post api story
endpoint, as you can see at the top
of the slide. That's a request being sent.
And then we wrote on the server what
we wanna do when we receive a request
to the slash api oh my goodness. Slash
api story endpoint here. So when we receive
this kind of request, we add the the
story that we just received to the end
of our stories array, so we just store
it in our database, or not database, but,
like, in our server, and then we send
that new story back. And so you can
see the response here on the bottom of
the slide. It just responds with the story,
the exact same story that got sent to
the front end as, like, a confirmation. Here
here's, here's the story that you just added.
And then on the front end, once we
receive this response, we take that response and
we add it to our array, our list
of stories that we're holding on the front
end so that we can actually display it.
So that was just a summary of what
we did in steps one and two. And
now we're going to repeat that and do
basically the same thing for comments. But before
we do that, everyone, stand up. I'm not
gonna do anything crazy this time. We're just
gonna stretch. Alright, you can do a little
reach up. Twist to one side. Twist to
the other side. Back to center, lean to
one side. Lean to the other side. Okay.
Everyone can sit back down. Now I'll pass
it off to Hong. Hello. Can you guys
hear me fine in the back? Okay, cool.
Yeah. So we're going to probably speed it
up a bit when we, because just for
the sake of time. But, how do I
Yeah, there we go. Our next step is
to do the slash API comments, get endpoint
and, make the get request from the front
end for the comments. So before we do
that, make sure you're caught up by following
the steps up in the top right corner.
I'll do that here. All right. So currently
we have our comments hard coded in card.
Jsx, as you can see right here in
our code, in card. Jsx. And right now,
because we have our comments hard coded, if
we try to post a story and refresh,
it'll save there, but the comments don't save
yet. So we also want to move this
to our back end so we can do
the same thing. Yeah. So let's move the
data to our server. We've already done this
once. So I'll just do it again. Yeah.
Go for it. I think filtering through comments
is actually a pretty fast thing, especially once
we transition to a database, which we'll be
able to do that operation really quickly, like
the filtering thing where you filter for comments
under a specific story basically. So right now
we'll code our server so that it just
has a list of all the comments. And
then whenever you want the comments under a
specific one, just filter for them. But databases
actually are really fast at doing this basically.
So once you move to a database, the
efficiency is less of a concern. Cool. So
I just copy pasted from card. Jsx into
server. Js. And yeah. Now that the comments
are in the back end, we need the
front end to request them. So we need
to set up something pretty similar from or
similar to what we just did for stories.
Except there's one catch which is that we
want to filter only the comments that are
under a specific story, which is what I
just talked about. So here you can see
that earlier we were taking the comments and
then we were filtering it for the comments
such that the comment parent matched the props.
Id, which is basically the story ID that
we passed out. So we want to do
the same thing on the server side, which
means that the client needs to ask the
server which story it wants the comments for
basically. And to do that we're going to
need to use rec. Query. So there's kind
of three parts to a GET request that
we've gone over basically. But for a query,
just want to show what that looks like
when you pass in a query into a
GET basically. So let's say we used GETAPIWebLab
as our endpoint and then we pass in
this query with some content. First, the query
gets transformed into our URL as part of
the URL. So it'll be part of our
URL where it sets content as the parameter
that we passed in. And then it'll hit
our backend. So this URL will basically hit
the endpoint in our backend that is labeled
slash API slash web lab. And on the
back end, when we want to retrieve our
query content, we can just print out or
if we console. Logquery dot content here, it'll
retrieve the content parameter from the URL that
we passed in basically. If console. Log here
we would get web development class accommodation which
is what we passed in. So first step,
we're going to start by doing the slash
API slash comments endpoint. So here, just as
a review, we are basically asking for the
comments under a specific story and then we
get back the response from Express or from
our back end saying, here's the comments under
that post. And for now we're going to
be focusing on the response. Before that, we're
going to do one more exercise in weblab.
Isexample. So let's use the Network tab and
open weblab. Isexample and then fill in the
request method, the URL, status code, the response
body. So one more time. And this time,
I think what you should focus on is
what's going on in the URL and how
the query gets transformed into the URL. Can
I get fingers for how many minutes you
need left? One minute. Okay. Cool. Yeah. We're
just going to move on. Basically what happens
so again, you'll probably see a different URL
when you saw this in Catbook example. But
we're using 3000 as our server, that's going
to be our base URL. We're using the
slash apicomments endpoint. And then the important part
here is that there's a parent and we
feed in the ID of the parent, basically,
which is then met with the response from
the server with a status code 200 and
then the response body which is the list
of the comments that we have. So we
have two comments here and yeah. Cool? Okay.
So let's create our GET request for this
story. We're going to be in server. Js.
What? How do we sorry. We're doing our
GET request first which means that we'll be
in card.JSX. So we're on our front end
right now. Currently we're coding our front end
React code which is getting comments for that
story. So we're gonna be in card.JSX And
you'll see here we have a to do
for step three, fetch the comments from the
server. In order to do that, we'll model
our code pretty similarly to what we did
in feed, which pings apistories. Here we'll ping.
Here we'll do a GET request from apicomments.
And we're going to need it to pass
in a parameter which is our parent, as
we just saw. And what is the parent
ID that we have? Well, we actually already
have our old code here which uses props
to ID to get the story ID that
we pass in or the story ID that
we check for to see if the parent
matches basically. So let's use this props dot
ID to represent our parent ID. And then
that's it for the GET request. Now we
need to figure out what we do once
we get the response back from the server.
So to do that we use .then. And
For the response, we need to write a
callback function to figure out what logic we
do. So that will look like when we
get a comments response, when we get a
comments response, we take that comments response and,
we set comments as and then we can
delete this line. Cool. Great. Yeah, so that's
the solution up there. I'll give you like
thirty seconds to like read through that and
make sure that makes sense and catch up.
Let me know if you have any questions.
Now that we have our API request written
on the front end, we need to actually
implement that on the back end. So that's
the okay here you go portion of this
step where we are writing whatever is going
on in our backend, which is in server.
Js. So currently, we have the list of
comments already moved to our backend and now
we just need to implement the logic that
occurs when we ping this endpoint. Cool. So
we've included the parent stories like underscore ID
prop as the parent parameter when we made
the GET request from the front end. So
how can we access this parent ID from
the back end? Well, because it's included as
the parent, we can just get the parent
parameter of something. And that something is going
to be rec dot query because, like, if
you remember, for GET requests, we're gonna be
using get rec dot query to get the
parameters that we pass in from the front
end basically. Cool. After that, we need to
filter out only the comments that are the
children of that specific story, I. E. Where
the parent matches the parent that we actually
pass in. Finally, we want to send those
comments back to the front end. Yeah. So
what that's going to look like is defining
a GET request, app dot get, and the
endpoint is going to be slash API slash
comments. And then our input is going to
be a rec res. And then what we
want to do is find our parent. So
const parent equals rec dot query dot parent.
Rec dot query represents the query that we
got and then we take the parent parameter.
So this should be whatever parent that we
passed in from the front end. Now we
want to filter out the comments that are
children of that story. To do that, we
can look at what is happening in never
mind, I deleted the line. Okay. Well, we
can do what was previously in card dot
JSX, which is the dot filter on our
comments list. So we can take our comments
and filter them out using the dot filter
method, and we feed in a callback function,
which takes in a comment. And for each
comment, we check whether or not that comment's
parent is equal to the parent that we
have passed in. Cool. Okay. Finally, now that
we have our filtered comments, we want to
send those comments back to the front end.
So that is just we can do that
just using res dot send filter comments. And
hopefully, if we go to our front end
now, we can see our comments. Okay. Yeah.
Cool. Everything's working. We can maybe post a
comment. So here's code here's the solution code
up here which you'll notice looks a little
shorter than the code that is here. They're
actually equivalent. I just wrote it in more
lines over here but all we needed to
do was filter out and then we used
a shorthand notation for a function to just
map each comment to true whether true if
the parent matched up and then false if
the parent didn't match up. So we can
kind of shorthand the callback function that we
wrote here basically. And then everything kind of
fits into a single line. If you put
the two like parts side by side, this
is what we have. So we're making the
GET request from the client side. We're processing
the GET request on the server side, which
filters the comments. And then after that we
do the dot then, which is taking whatever
response we got from the server and then
setting our comments to that comment response. Cool.
Any questions? Okay. I'll be moving on. We
actually just tested it out. So yeah, it
does work in our browser. Now if we
refresh right now, the Meow comment that I
made is gone. So our next step is
to make sure that those comments are persisted
on the server by actually posting our comments
to the server. So back on the same
page, let's follow these commands. Okay, so we
see to dos for step four. And we'll
be doing those which are implementing the post
endpoint and then also making the post request
from the front end for that endpoint. Yeah,
so as an example, maybe we make the
comment, please post this new comment under the
story that we give. And then the response
is, okay, sure, you've done it. And we'll
also send the response back with the comment
just to confirm that everything matches up on
the server and the client. I think we
will skip this part honestly? Yeah. Okay. We'll
skip this part because it's like basically the
same as posting a comment which we've already
done except we're posting a story. So the
only difference is that the request URL is
gonna be slash api slash comment instead and
the request body is going to contain a
comment. Other than that, it's gonna look basically
the same as slash api slash story. So
hopefully this step is actually pretty simple. In
order to post our comments to the back
end, we're going to need a post endpoint
on the back end and a post request
on the front end. If you remember, for
post requests, we are going to use rec.
Body to whatever content that we send on
the back end. Yeah. So the main difference
here is that when we do our back
end code, we're going to be using rec
dot body to retrieve whatever content that we
sent through. So if our body that we
sent through post had one content parameter, then
we can retrieve that using rec. Body dot
content. Yeah. So the first thing, the first
part of this that we're gonna do is
posting comments, which is the post request to
the back end. So what information do we
want to send through rec. Body? Want to
send the comment that we plan on posting.
Comment data that we want to post is
passed in through the add new comment in
car.JSX. So let's dig a little deeper into
here. Let's add new comment function that we
have here. It's being called or first of
all, it's being passed into comments block which
then passes it as a prop into new
comment. And new comment calls add new comment
with this JSON object here, which represents a
comment. It has a content, a creator name,
an ID, and a parent. So our new
comment component is going to be calling add
new comment with an object that represents a
comment. So whatever is being passed in to
add new comment here is we can basically
think of it as a comment already. So
we don't have to do anything with it.
All we need to do is post it
to the server. So in order to do
that, we will be making a post request.
So postapicomments is the endpoint we want to
use. And then the body that we want
to give is just literally this comment object.
And now after we receive the request from
the server, what we want to do is
take the comment object that we get back
and set comments to our original comments list
with this common object added on. Well, so
there's the solution. Yeah. Okay. One question that
I'll give you like a minute to discuss
is why we need to set this comment
inside why we need this call set comments
inside the dot then rather than just outside
of why we can't just do the set
comments outside the dot then. Because even outside
the dot then we have this comment parameter
that we're being passed into the function. So
why do we do this inside the dot
then rather than outside? Maybe you turn to
talk and discuss for a bit. Okay. I'm
just going to bring it back because we
do need to keep moving forward. But, basically
the reason why we put this, set comments
inside the dot then, why we call it,
why we call set comments inside dot then
is because if we call that outside then
there's a chance that our promise doesn't fulfill
but we still call set comments. And what
would that mean? Let's say like the server
like crashed or errored when we were trying
to post this comment, then we would still
be showing it on our own front end
but on the back end, it would actually
like not exist. And this is a problem
because generally we want whatever is showing on
our website to reflect what's actually in the
server. So we want be showing users, hey,
you posted this post or you posted this
comment successfully when in fact their comment actually
didn't get posted successfully. So in general, we
do these logic inside the .then to make
sure that we're reflecting what is actually on
the server basically. Okay. So we've already done
the post request from the front end. Now
we to respond to the post request from
the back end. So again, that's going be
in server. Js. Cool. So we need to
add an API route, basically, that correctly responds
to post request to apicomment. So that is
this response arrow. Yeah. So it's going to
look a lot like post slash apistory. Thankfully,
again, we don't need to do too much
work here because our comment is actually just
passed in as the body of our our
request. So all we need to do is
basically take rec dot body and that will
literally be the comment that we want and
then add it to the comments list. So
what is that gonna look like? Basically, we'll
define a post request using app dot post
And then apicomment is the endpoint that we
want to define it on. And then taking
in a request and response object, we want
to simply get our new comment object, which
is going to just be rect dot body.
Then we add the new comments to our
comments list, which we can do by doing
comments dot push. New comment. Finally, we send
it back to our client using res dot
send. Cool. There's the solution. I'll leave it
up for just a little bit. So yeah,
I'll leave the solution up on this screen.
If you have any questions about it, please
let us know. In the meantime, I will
test this on my front end to make
sure everything is working. If I go here
and I type, I like dogs. Stories still
work and let's say underneath here I type
And then if we refresh, everything is still
there. So yay, we have made sure that
these things, made sure that both the stories
and comments have persisted on the back end
as well so that when we refresh, when
we refresh, the things don't go away basically.
Yeah. Great. Any questions? So yeah, hopefully you
should be able to also go and check
and make sure everything is also working in
your own browser. Are we doing another one?
Alright. So now we're gonna briefly review everything
that we just went over in steps three
and four. And then after that, we'll take
a quick break, and then we'll move on
to something a little less brain intensive, more
chill, more fun. Alright. So let's look again
at the was everything in feed, Hong? Oh,
right. Right. Right. Okay. So we have card
and then split screen with oh, wait. I
should split screen with server. Can I do
this? Nope. Oh, I can. Okay. Okay. So
first, if we wanna get all of the
comments in step three, what we did was
we sent a get request to api slash
comments, and that included some query parameters here.
So the get request included a query parameter
that had the parent, which is the story
that we were posting that comment under. And
then what that looks like is it sends
a request to the URL and then it
adds the query parameters to the URL. So
we have localhost 3,000 slash api, and that
should be slash comments, yes. And then question
mark and then the query parameters. So all
of that information gets sent in the URL
because for get requests, they cannot have bodies
of the request. A get request will only
have parameters inside the query, inside the URL
itself. And so after we send that re
re request here, then the server, we have
this endpoint, slash api slash comments, that's listening
for request to slash api slash comments. And
when it receives one, it takes the comments
list, filters out all of the ones that
have that particular parent that we received from
rec. Query. So this is pulling out the
value associated with the parent in the http
get request. And so it takes all of
those comments and sends them back to the
front end, and that's the response that you
see at the bottom of the slide. And
then on the front end, once as soon
as we receive that response back from the
server, then we take the comments that we
received here and we set the React state
with it, which allows the front end to
render based on what we received back from
the server. That was step three. And then
finally, in step four, we implemented the functionality
to send a new comment over to the
server. And so what we did here is
add new comment gets called any time you
type in a thing into the little comment
box and hit the submit button, and then
that will pass in the information about a
comment. And so we're gonna take that information
about a comment that we have in our
front end, that was defined in new post
input. I won't pull it up, but it's
just a JavaScript object that has the comment
information. We're gonna take that and send it
as the request body to the server. Now
notice here that when we get our request,
all of that information of the parent is
in the URL. But then when we do
a post request, the convention is a little
bit different. When we do a post request,
then that is sent not in the URL,
but inside the body of the request. So
this is what our HTTP request is going
to look like to post a new command.
And then same as before, we have this
endpoint that's waiting and listening for any request
to slash api slash comment. This is in
our back end on server dot j s.
And then once we receive that, then we're
going to take the new comment that we
received. This is rec dot body because it's
the body of the request, as you see
up there. And then we're going to add
it to our comments list that's stored in
the server, and then send back the comment
that we just received to the front end.
And so that's why you see in the
response, we're sending back the exact same data
that we received from the front end in
the first place. And that's just confirming that
it worked. And then in the front end,
once we receive the response from the server,
we take the response that we received from
the server and set the React state, set
comments to what it was before, plus that
additional comment. And so we can display the
new updated comment list on our front end.
Any questions on any of that? Cool. Did
you wanna take over for the last bit?
Okay. Sorry. I'm a be kinda speedy speedy
with the last part because we wanna finish
on time, I think. But, basically, if you
look into our server.js and we'll only be
focusing us on our server for server now.
We have a pretty long server.js file right
now. Let's make sure we're caught up first
using, like, get reset hard and then we'll
check out the next step. Step five. Yeah.
So we have a pretty long server. Js
file right now. It's like 120 lines. And
if we wanted to write more API endpoints,
those are all and if we wanted to
write those and they all went into server.
Js, then it would get a little crowded.
And this is especially an issue once server.
Js starts having to also handle things like,
connecting to our database or like making queries
to Google Calendar or whatever else you want
to do. If you all put it in
one file, this would kind of be a
nightmare. So what we want to do now
is basically move some stuff away from server.
Js. And kind of just like want to
show how we would do that. If you'll
notice in our workshop three step five, we
have made a nice here or sorry, a
nice file here called API dot js. And
so our next step is basically going to
be moving everything from server dot JS that
is related to our API into this file
so that we can implement all our endpoints
over here. The syntax for this is going
to be app dot use, which is a
middleware. And we pass in a router, which
is basically an app object just like const
app equals express, except it allows us to
import this object from other files and use
the endpoints from that file, basically. So let's
check out the branch, which I already did.
But I'll move quickly here basically just because
I want to finish. How this is going
to work is we're going to move everything
that is currently in app, which is server.
Js, into a router. And the reason why
we do this is mainly for organization and
modularity. So basically if we organize into different
files, it'll be a lot more clear where
things are. And modularity means that we can
work within a specific file without worrying about
what's in the other files, basically. So currently,
just as an example, we have an apitest
endpoint right now. We want to move it
to api. Js and we'll have apittest endpoint
in api. Js instead. So the steps is
creating a separate file, which we have already
done, then defining a router for api. Js
in api. Js. Cool. So that's all we
need to do there. Next. We want to
export our router so that our server can
see it. So that's just going to look
like module dot exports, which is essentially the
back end or the back end version of
export exporting like any function. So if you
remember like export, export default from the front
end, this is the version of that that
we do in the back end. So module
dot exports equals router will export this so
that other files can see it. If you
ever are confused about how we know how
to do anything, generally you get these things
by looking up the documentation. So if you
ever don't know how to do something, you
can look at the documentation for any help.
Cool. So the next step is defining the
middleware to route any API paths over. So
to do that, we're going to go back
into server. And we're going to define a
router, which is just requiring which we do
by just requiring API. And then the next
step is to use the router in the
server, which we do by implementing a middleware.
So what that's going look like is using
an app dot use. And we feed in
this API path, which means that anything which
starts with slash API will be using this
router for. Finally, we're going to move everything
that we've just implemented all into API .JS.
Okay. So we just literally just copy pasted
everything that we had in server dot j
s into app .js. Let's see what this
looks like. We see that we have this
app. Getapitest over here. What that turns into
on the server side is we instead use
router dot get. And instead of slash api
slash test, we use slash test because when
we wrote here const or if app dot
use slash API, this will route everything that
starts with slash API over to the router
and get rid of that slash API tag
or slash API part of the URL on
it. So to recap, app turns into router
because we're now using our router instead of
our app object. And then anything with this
slash API tag, we get rid of that
slash API tag. So let's do this for
all of them. I'm gonna just replace all
instances of app with router. Cool. So now
we're doing router. Get for everything and then
we'll just delete everything that every single slash
API at the start of each URL. Cool.
Okay. That was a little fast. But again,
if you have any questions about this, just
come to office hours. Okay. Let's go to
our front end and see if everything is
working. Okay, cool. So it looks like everything
is working. We can try to do a
few test things. And yeah, okay, cool. Everything
is working over here. If you check-in server.js,
we it's a lot shorter now. Now that
we've moved stuff to API.JS. So in general,
this kind of syntax is really helpful in
case you ever want to move stuff that
you have defined in server. Js to like
another file basically. So now that we have
everything in api. Js, any future endpoints that
we write, we can just put in api.
Js instead. Okay. You can play around with
that a little bit if you like, but
that's the end of my lecture and Lucas',
so hopefully you guys enjoyed that. Please give
us feedback at weblub dot in slash feedback.
Our next lecture will be on databases. So
I'll see you after a short break and
maybe an announcement from